Summary
-------


Major issues
------------

1) I wonder if the manuscript title could be more specific, e.g. "The impact of DNA marker quantity, quality, and phasing on demographic inference performed with approximate Bayesian computation". The current title is very broad and could result in the paper being misclassified as "another one reiterating known issues with ABC".

2) From the abstract, it is not clear what the main focus of the paper is: studying the impact on ABC performance of i) marker number, quality, and phasing; ii) the complexity of the demographic model; or iii) both. Later it becomes clear that iii) applies, and that the focus is on a small set of demographic models relevant in the context of invasion scenarios.

3) What summary statistics are used? If the same set of summary statistics is used for phased and unphased data, then the limitation of this study is that by design it may not be able to extract the additional information present in phased vs. unphased data. For a meaningful comparison, the set of summary statistics should be chosen with best-quality phased data and a given demographic scenario in mind. Then, omitting phasing, one could ask if the performance decreases for that given demograhpis scenario. This comparison could then be repeated for other demograhpic scenarios.
Update: The distinction between using and not using phase information is made by including or excluding linkage-related summary statistics. As a consequence, if the addition of phasing information has a minor benefit, it may be unclear if this because LD information is not important, or because the larger number of summary statistics adds constraints (the curse of dimensionality) which are absent if linkage-related summary statistics are excluded.

4) To what extent is LD taken into account (summary statistics)? Update: Through "linkage-related statistics" in those experiments that account for phase.

5) Assuming that 'good' (i.e. close to statistically sufficient) summary statistics for unphased data have been used, it is not surprising that methods based on the SFS yield similar results. Vice versa, the fact that the two methods agree could be used to argue that the chosen summary statistics are almost sufficient, since the SFS represents the full information (barring LD information; see the previous point). [TODO: Check if the one- or two-dimensional SFS is being used].

6) Are the choice of summary statistics, distance metric, and rejection tolerance discussed well enough?

7) Given the previous work assessing the performance of ABC on genome-wide marker data (some of which is discussed in the manuscript), it was unclear to me how and to what extent this manuscript extends our knowledge about the performance of ABC. [Expand on this, starting from l. 119 to 132]


Minor comments
--------------

Abstract

l. 31: For clarity, I suggest to mention what the three parameters are in the 3-parameter model.


Introduction

l. 49-50: It would seem appropriate to cite more review papers than just Schraiber & Akey (2015), given the growing number of such articles that reach beyond demographic inference in humans. Reviews on ABC will be discussed later in the manuscript, but it would be good to cite them here, too.


Demographic inference in natural populations of non-model organisims

l. 59: The field has moved to inference under even more complex scenarios then the ones described in Harris & Nielsen (2013). For instance, see Excoffier (2013), Gravel (2013), or Jouganous et al. (2017).

l. 61-62: It would be good to mention why state-of-the-art statistical inference methods applied to human data are currently out of reach for non-human natural populations.

l. 67: "The good news is the genomic revolution has..." -> "The good news is that the genomic revolution has..." (?)

l. 73-74: It does not become clear here that the PSMC does not only require whole-genome sequences, but also phasing non-haploid organisms (in contrast to ABC). The need for phasing is a further limitation worth mentioning here.

l. 81: It would seem good to mention explicitly that inference based on RRL sequencing methods assumes that individual markers are independent. That is, linkage information is ignored.

l. 98: "First, A large..." -> "First, a large..."

l. 99: ABC is not restricted to simulations "using the coalescent". Any type of simulation of a computer model (including forward-in-time population-genetic simulations) can be used.

l. 101-102: This formulation could be misunderstood as meaning that only the simulation(s) with the minimum distance to the observed summary statistics is kept. Instead, most ABC algorithms retain simulations for which the distance is less than a threshold, and hence involve some tolerance. The choice of this tolerance as well as the appropriate distance metric are major issues that should at least be mentioned.

l. 104-105: Perhaps reformulate to something like "Approximate Bayesian computation is a type of rejection algorithm that avoids the explicit calculation of likelihoods. It is therefore of interest for inference under models for which the likelihood function is hard to compute or intractable."

l. 106: "required" -> "requires"


Previous work exploring the ABC method

l. 116-117: I suggest Blum et al. (2013, Statistical Science, doi:10.1214/12-STS406) and references therein for further literature relevant to the choice of summary statistics.

l. 135: I suggest adding a sentence about other important issues with ABC that the reader should be aware of, but that are beyond the scope of the paper (choice of summary statistics, choice of rejection tolerance, and choice of distance metric). The choice of summary statistics seems particularly important, since different choices of molecular markers and RRL methods may require different sets of summary statistics.


General model and datasets

l. 139: Please refer to Fig. 1 here already.

l. 150-151: It seems that the overestimates of divergence time are a consequence of ignoring linkage information (i.e. of assuming independence of markers). If so, it would be worth stating this here to motivate your use of linkage information.

l. 152-154: This may be beyond the scope of the current manuscript, but a comparison of your ABC method to ABLE (Reddy et al. 2016, https://doi.org/10.1101/077958) would seem appropriate. The ABLE method includes linkage information by computing the SFS of blocks of DNA, rather than single SNPs.

	









