Summary
-------

This paper aims at increasing our our understanding of the interplay of gene flow, natural selection, and genetic drift in shaping observable patterns of neutral and adaptive variation across space and among loci. The authors perform a simulation study to assess the consequences of variable amounts of dispersal, genetic drift, and selection on population structure and correlationb between genetic and geographic distance. They then compare population- vs. individual-based statistcal approaches in their ability to identify a locus under selection, as compared to a background of neutral loci. The strengths and weaknesses of these commonly-used methods are discussed. The principle goal of this study is to assess the combined effects of varying dispersal distance and population size.

Go on here.

Strength: This article investigates complexities of this topic that are hard to deal with by means of analytical treatment, and instead uses comprehensive simulations. This is a welcome complementation of previous work.

Three selection regimes: a) two discrete adjacent environments, b) a linear selection gradient from north to south, and c) neutrality.

The study assumes a k-allele mutation model at neutral sites, and a biallelic site under selection. Loci appear to be unlinked, but since simulations are individual-based, statistical assocications (linkage disequilibrium) does arise among loci.

How the study works.

In principle, the idea of assessing existing population- and individual-based methods for the detection of candidate loci under selection is of very high interest. This is especially true with respect to violations of commonly made assumptions about the underlying demographic model. This study might therefore be highly relevant, but it needs to be improved. There are currently too many open questions with respect to the statistical analysis and simulations. The observed patterns need to be interpreted much more clearly and a greater effort must be taken to make sense of the results. If the sometimes high error rates associated with e.g. BayeScan and LOSITAN are indeed true, that would raise concerns about the fact that these methods are widely used in situations where they might perform badly.

Novel aspect of this study, e.g. as compared to Jones et al (2013): variation in the extent of dispersal. Low dispersal seems to increase type I error rates of methods that try to detect loci under selection. But this seems to be pretty much the only new result compared to previous work (e.g. by De Mitta et al. 2013; Jones et al. 2013; Forester et al. 2015).

The Discussion is well-written and compensates to some extent for a lack of clarity in the previous parts of the manuscript. These other parts must be improved, and it must become much more comprehensive how the conclusions follow from the simulation experiments and results.

I have a number of main concerns and a long list of minor to moderate issues.


Main concerns
-------------

*) I was missing a discussion of the concept of Wright's (1943) neighbourhood size, both in the Introduction and with respect to the results. Under admittedly idealised settings, this concept links dispersal distance with population density. In particular, it suggests that dispersal distance (or its variance) and local population density form a compound parameter. The authors of the present study are also interested in the relation between dispersal distance and population size, albeit in a spatially more complex context and including selection. It would therefore be of interest to know what can be learnt in addition to Wright's concept, and how robust it is. In the same context, how do your findings relate to Shirk and Cushman (2014; Front. Ecol. Evol.)? They propose a way of inferring spatial variation in Wright's neighbourhood size, e.g. as a consequence of variation in resistance to gene flow. I wonder if this could be of use when trying to detect selection, as it acts as a resistance to gene flow. At least, please try to translate your parameter combinations under neutrality into Wright's neighbourhood size for reference.

*) In the Introduction, there is a lack of references to theoretical papers. Please also make sure you are citing the original papers for observations you summarise. Overall, the references seemed to be biased towards a landscape-genetic perspective, with a lack of population-genetic literature.

*) Please make an effort to reduce the length of the Introduction. I suggest shortening the parts where you highlight the advantages of simulation-based approaches.

*) There is an extensive literature on the evolution and maintenance of allele-frequency clines in scenarios similar to those considered in this paper (but under simplifying assumptions about demography). How do the results here relate to the classical literature? What is the novel insight?

*) In scenario b) ("gradient scenario") it is not clear what geographic units Fst (and other measures of divergence, e.g. D_est) would refer to; is it still the northern and southern portion of the entire range? Using Fst to estimate the number of migrants assumes an island model of migration and comes with several other problems (reviewed in Whitlock & McCauley 1999). It would be good to briefly mention this.

*) On the one hand, the authors claim to relax arguably constraining idealising assumptions made in classical population-genetic analyses (e.g. about demography and migration) using a simulation-based approach. This seems fine. But then they resort to measures of genetic divergence (e.g. Fst) and statistical tests (e.g. the Mantel test) that are based on these simplifying population-genetic models or otherwise potentially problematic assumptions (e.g. Guillot & Rousset 2013, Meth Ecol Evol) without further discussion. It may be fine to use Fst as a statistic in the current context, but I would discourage using it to infer the number of migrants. Similarly, the Mantel test may be appropriate here, but please do justify its use, in particular with respect to potential autocorrelation in both variables (genetic and geographic distances).

*) It was not clear to me whether the LOSITAN simulations used to generate the null-distribution of Fst were based on exactly the same demographic model as is assumed here by the authors. This important point should be clarified, and potential deviations discussed. It seems as if an island model (or a related version) is being used, but it is not clear.

*) Study shows qualitative patterns that would be expected based on currently known theory. The quantitative results are difficult to interpret, though, for three reasons. First, the parameters of interes are estimated by methods that make strong assumptions about the underlying model, which are not met in this case (and also not discussed well enough by the authors). Second, it is not clear with respect to which demographic/spactial unit statistics such as Fst are calculated. Third, oen of the principal processes considered here, gene flow, is not specified well enough. In particular, the dispersal kernel and mechanism is unclear. For these reasons, I do not think that the study reveals much novel insight, but simply reinforces previous knowledge in a relatively unspectacular way.

*) I think that the selection regime called "weak" is not actually weak, as the selection coefficient is s = 0.1 and the smalles population size 1000, such that N*s = 100, which is still large compared to the typical threshold of around 10 below which selection could be truly called "weak". I suggest calling the regime with s = 0.1 "moderate", and introducing a third regime with truly weak selection. There is also some confusion about the actual value of s used (s = 0.1 vs. s = 0.01; see e.g. l. 158 vs. Table 1).

*) The contrast between Figure 2 and Appendix S2 is impressive, but it is currently unclear if this is a biologically relevant difference or a consequence of a misspecification of demographic units with respect to which Fst and D_est were measured.



Minor comments
--------------

l. 26: "Most research on natural selection, gene flow, and effective population sizeinteractions ..." -> "Most research on the interaction of natural selection, gene flow, and effective population size..."

l. 35: The symbols N_m and N_e have not been introduced. It may be better to spell out their meaning in the abstract.

l. 35-36: "highest" -> "higher"; "and lowest" -> "than"

l. 37: "Alternatively" -> "However"

l. 39-40: "in a selection gradient" -> "with a selection gradient (as opposed to XY)" [it should be clear what the alternative is to a selection gradient in your analyses]

l. 43: Remove spaces surrounding the dashes that indicate ranges. "in comparison to population-based methods 0.7 - 1.0" -> "in comparison to 0.7-1.0 for population-based methods"

l. 43-45 Replace by "We suggest using both population- and individual-based approaches in order to limit false positives and negatives.

l. 51: Insert "the" before "identification".

l. 55: Please include more recent references.

l. 62-63: Please include reference to theoretical papers.

l. 72;74-75;76: Please include references to theoretical and/or original papers.

l. 77-80: I am not sure if I would call this a 'debate'. It seems established that both outcomes are plausible (i.e. spatial correlation of neutral and adaptive markers vs. different spatial distributions), but it is very difficult make statistical inference about processes from these patterns. This is partly because we are still learning to understand what we should expect under different modes of selection, extents of linkage, and strength of genetic drift.

l. 80: Insert "that" after "predicts".

l. 80-81: Large population size and limited gene flow will, per se, not guarantee strong adaptive divergence among populations. Selection must be spatially heterogeneous for this to occur. Without selection, we would expect small populations to show the strongest differentiation (due to genetic drift).

l. 91: Insert a space after "Matala et al. 2014;".

l. 93-94: "To understand the roles and interaction between gene flow, population size, and natural selection..." -> "To understand the roles of gene flow, population size, natural selection, and their interactions..."


l. 94: "these" -> "the following"

l. 101-104: This was not very clear to me. Also, you might want to mention that candidate loci found via genome scans can inform functional studies and experiments directly testing the effect of selective agents.

l. 105: Delete "role and".

l. 107-108: It is not clear how you differentiate between 'selective gradients' and 'spatially distinct environments'. Do you refer to heterogeneous selection in continuous vs. discrete space? This differentiation is important, but you should make it more explicit. You could refer to Fig. 1 earlier on.

l. 108: "discrete, population-based models under ideal" -> "models of discrete populations combined with idealizing"

l. 109: Replace the hyphen in "Wright-Fisher" by an en-dash.

l. 110: "equivocal" -> "difficult"

l. 122-123: Please define what you mean by "population-based" vs. "correlation-based" early on. Is "correlation-based" equivalent to what you are later on calling "individual-based"? These distinctions seem crucial.

l. 127: ">1" -> "more than"

l. 140-144: I was again missing the specification that selection must be spatially heterogeneous for these predictions to make sense.


l. 156: 'Dispersal distance' is not appropriately defined. Does it refer to the mean or standard deviation of a dispersal kernel? Please clarify.

l. 155-160: Please start subsentences with a lowercase letter.

l. 157-158: Remove brackets around "s" (i.e. around the symbol for the selection coefficient). When selection is "weak", was s set to 0.1 or 0.01? Here, it says 0.01, but Table 1 suggests 0.1.

l. 162: Insert comma before "which".

l. 162: Replace ", a computationally challenging and time-consuming endeavor" by a sentence explicitly stating the (approximate) computation time needed and the hardware used.

l. 164: Please also specify the population size (1000) of these initial simulations in the main text.

l. 168: Was Fst exactly or approximately equal to 0.02?

l. 171: What exactly to you mean by 'polygynous mating system'? E.g. random mating where both sexes can mate several times per breeding episode? What is the offspring distribution?

l. 172: Do you mean an inverse-chi-squared distribution? Otherwise, I do not understand what dispersal kernel you used.

l. 173: Are these loci unlinked? If so, pleas specify.

l. 174: You seem to be referring to mutation rates in humans (or at least mammals). How important is the exact value of the mutation rate? Could you speed up your simulations by increasing the mutation rate without loosing power to detect the signals you are interested in? Please specify what k you used. Or does k emerge from the simulation algorithm? Please clarify.

l. 177-179: On l. 158 you introduced selection in terms of reduced survival (which implied viability selection of the individual whose fitness is considered). Here, however, the fitness of an individual is defined in terms of the survival of its offspring, which to me implies fertility selection on the focal individual; yet, survival of the offspring depends on their genotype. Hence, fitness of the offspring is a function of their parental genotypes. Because of this, strictly speaking, you are not portraying the fitness of a single parent, but of a mating pair. In principle, this is feasible, but please make sure your specifications are consistent.

l. 180-183: Perhaps use a), b), and c) throughout instead of (a), (b), and (c), and then replace "a", "b", and "c" later on by a), b), and c), respectively (e.g. in l. 184, 189,...). Currently, the notation is inconsistent (cf. caption of Figure 1). Moreover, I find the term "present/absent" misleading, because selection is present if there is a difference in fitness between the two environments, not because it is present in the north but not in the south or vice versa. How about calling it "step-wise scenario" or similar?

l. 182: "a gradient with the strength of selection continuously distributed from..." -> "a linear gradient of selection strength from...".

l. 188: Adjust the font for the "aa" genotype to italic. Insert ", i.e. A allele is fully recessive" after "of 1.0". [Actually, this sentence is redundant to the one on l. 191-192 and could be omitted; but please add the remark about full recessivity of A there.] What is the reason for assuming full recessivity of the A allele (dominance of the deleterious allele "a")? Please motivate. Please remind the reader that you also consider a "strong" selection regime under a).

l. 194-196: It is not clear if the references given at the end of the sentence refer to both the linkage-disequilibrium method and the jack-knife approach or only to the latter. Please add a sentence or two summarising the idea behind the linkage-disequilibrium method.

l. 197-198: Insert "the" before "number". Replace "calculated" by "estimated". Please replace the hyphen in the equation by a proper minus sign. I was a bit puzzled to see this estimate of Nm being used, as I do not think that the model considered here is well approximated by the island model that underlies this estimate.

l. 203: Please give the formula for D_est for completeness.

l. 204: "the 1 loci" -> "the one locus"

l. 206: Insert "it" after "because".

l. 207: Set the "F" italic in "Fst". You say that D_est "scales linearly" but not with what. 

l. 209: You use "landscape genetics approach" here, probably to mean the same as "individual-based approache(s)" mentioned earlier (e.g. l. 44, l. 221, l. 258). Please use a minimum number of terms and be consistent for clarity.

l. 211: "only adaptive loci" -> "only the adaptive locus"

l. 212: Please justify the choice of using Dps and give the formula.

l. 212-213: "For each scenario, selection strength, and selection surface..." -> "For each scenario (i.e. combination of selection strength and selection regime), ..."; "the10" -> "ten" (?).

l. 212 ff: You seem to describe specifics that apply to both the population-based and individual-based approach from here on. Please start a new paragraph with "For each scenario". Did you also generate a time series of Dps? Please specify.

l. 220: I suggest introduting the various statistical tests before the description of how you computed the type I and II errors.

l. 224: Please adjust names of scenarios as appropriate (cf. previous comments; this applies to other places in the manuscript, too, but I will not mention it anymore).

l. 228: "1 locus" -> "one locus"

l. 230-231: Please correct position of "implemented in" and adjust the format of the citation.

l. 232: Do the assumptions underlying the LOSITAN software correspond exactly to the demographic model that you used in your neutral scenario? Please clarify / specify deviations.

l. 237-238: Please motivate what you use the FDR for, and mention how you computed confidence intervals (e.g. based on empirical percentiles?). You give more background on your use of FDR values to approximate p-values on l. 253-257, so I wonder if you could present this earlier on.

l. 239-248: As for the LOSITAN/Fdist approach above, it would be good to explain a bit more what assumptions are made by BayeScan about the underlying demographic model and how robust the method is to these. BayeScan assumes a "fission model" (Falush et al. 2003), which is close to Wright's (1931) island model, except that islands share a common ancestral population before becoming isolated. Foll & Gaggiotti (2006) tested the robustness of such types of methods to some deviations. It may be good to remind the reader of their main findings.

l. 241: It is not clear what "population-specific" (as opposed to "global") means in the context of the "gradient scenario"; does it still refer to north vs. south?

l. 245-248: My understanding was that Foll and Gaggiotti's BayeScan would only provide an advantage in the context of more than two populations, and unequal rates of gene flow and effective sizes among these. Since it is not clear to me with respect to which units you define Fst and migration (see previous comments), I cannot judge if BayeScan is really expected to be better than Fdist in your context. Essentially, the demographic models assumed by Beaumont and Nichols (1996) and Foll and Gaggiotti (2008) are the same. Beaumont and Nichols (1996) showed that their Fdist approach is quite robust to violations.

l. 251: Insert a space after "odds value to".

l. 251-253: Please improve the formulation of this sentence. I did not quite understand its meaning.

l. 259-260: Should it say "sampling sites's environmental characteristics"?

l. 262-266: I got confused about whether environmental variables are response or predictor variables. Please clarify. You seem to use latitude as a predictor, but say it is a response. Also, is it appropriate to use latitude as environmental variable in the "present/absent" scenario? Should you not use a Boolean variable instead that differentiates between "north" and "south"?

l. 269-273: Please describe the GLM you used in some more detail. What link function did you use? Did you also consider using the allele frequency (rather than the binary variable presence/absence) as a response? If so, how did that affect the error rates?

l. 278: Replace "10–1,741" by "10 to 1,741".

l. 292: "differentiation..." whithout further specification may be misleading. Perhaps: "difference between neutral and selected loci in terms of D_est..."

l. 295: "D_est values increased..." -> "D_est values for the locus under selection increased...". It appears as if this initial increase and temporary peak are a consequence of the initial conditions. Did you try other initial conditions, and if so, did the D_est value for the selected locus converge to the same plateau after 500 generations?

l. 297-300: Please carefully revise this sentence. The references to the figure panels did not seem to agree with the text, and the values of D_est = 0.62 and 0.57 do not seem to correspond to high and low drift, but low and high dispersal. See further comments to Figure 2 below.

l. 301-307: It is hard to imagine why, all esle being equal, weak selection should lead to stronger differentiation at the locus under selection than strong selection (panels a.i vs. b.i in Appendix S2). Without further explanation, it is also difficult to understand why lower dirft should lead to more genetic structure.

l. 311: "Mantel r" -> "Mantel's r" (?) This occurs at other places and I will not repeat myself.

l. 315 Delete "Adaptive".

l. 317-320: I do not understand why the differentially selected locus would be less differentiated than the neutral and the combined set of loci. Is this, in the end, an artefact of different numbers of alleles segregating at the neutral vs. selected locus? The selected locus is bound to have two alleles, whereas the neutral loci seem to be simulated under a k-allele model of mutation.

l. 323: Based on Table 3, should it not say "(N_m > 17)" instead of "(N_m > 19)"?

l. 334: Insert comma after "generations". Set "Type" to lowercase.

l. 334-336: Please remind the reader that you are only referring to the "present/absent" selection regime here.

l. 336: "Bayescan" -> "BayeScan".

l. 736: "length the entire..." -> "length of the entire..."

l. 337: Insert reference to Appendix S4 after "generiations".

l. 338: Should it not say ">= 60%" here, as the type II error rate is 0.6 for a confidence level of 99% (Table 4)?

l. 339-341: Are you referring only to the columns in Table 5 that refer to 4 or more identified loci? Otherwise, the number in brackets (<= 0.1) seems wrong.

l. 349: I was surprised to read that type II error rates dropped when you use 99% CIs instead of 95% CIs. I'd have expected the opposite.

l. 357-359: Please improve the formulation "failed to reject the false null hypothesis (that an adaptive locus was present)". To my understanding, the null hypothesis is that there is no adaptive locus present. The type II error rate measures how often you fail to reject this null hypothesis in cases where it actually should be rejected. "When a selection gradient was present" -> "Under the selection-gradient regime, however," (to make it clearer that you are now contrasting the two selection regimes). Insert "the" before "error rate increased".

l. 360: It is counterintuitive that type II error rates would increase over time in the gradient regime. How can this be explained?

l. 364: But this does not seem to apply to the low dispersal, low drift regime, where GLM has a lower type II error rate than Samβada, i.e. the GLM detects the adaptive locus more often.

l. 369-374: These results would indicate that the type of demography that you consider is prone to causing a lot of false-positive signal of selection. While this would indeed be an important finding, I find it hard to understand why exactly your relatively simple demographic regime (essentially creating a pattern of isolation by distance) would create this strong effect, i.e. a differentiation between north and south. I could imagine that local clustering of certain alleles would occur, and that this might create a correlation of space and allelic identity that could be misinterpreted by individual-based methods trying to detect selection. However, if this were the case, it would be good to visualise this effect, e.g. by creating a two-dimensional plot with individuals coloured by genotype at the times of sampling. The contrast between neutral and selected sites that you seem to be observing even in the purely neutral case could be a consequence of different mutation models assumed for these two types of loci (see also my comment to Appendix S3). Clearly, a better understanding of what causes these findings seems necessary.

l. 379-380: Please improve the formulation in "to refine understanding of our capacity to quantify and avoid large type I and II error in...". I don't think refining the understanding of how to quandify error rates was a primary goal.

l. 387-390: Please split the sentence. Give an example of what types of "corroborating results" you imagine. Also, combining with empirical data sounds redundant, as you would in general already start by using empirical data. An article seems to be missing before "with empirical.

l. 394: I would not overemphasise the examination of the dyanmics (i.e. "temporal trends"), as you did not explore a wide enough range of initial conditions. These could have a strong impact on the dynamics, potentially also on the stationary distribution of allele frequencies at the neutral sites, but not on the outcome at the site under selection. It would be interesting to explore this more as type I error rates might be affected, but I am not asking for this in this paper. I would suggest adding a comment about the lack of exploration of a wide range of initial conditions, though.

l. 396: Given that a large part of population genetic research is concerned with the effect of genetic drift as a limit to adaptation, and that many previous studies (e.g. Beaumont and Nichols 1996; Foll and Gaggiotti 2006, 2008) have assessed the effect of drift on our ability to detect adaptive variation, I wonder if you want to back away from the claim of this study being "unique" in that respect.

l. 398-400: Do you mean that low dispersal and low drift created the *largest* or the *smallest* difference between neutral and adaptive differentiation? I found it hard to conclude either of these statements unambiguously from the results you show.

l. 408: What do you mean by "measuring genetic differentiation separately"? In practice, one does often not know the difference between neutral and selective loci a priori, so that statement did not make sense to me.

l. 410: Does this also apply to panel b.iii in Figure 3? I was not able to determine whether the non-solid line was dashed (selection-driven locus) or dot-dashed (neutral sites).

l. 411-418: This part sounded contradicting to me. On the one hand, you imply that neutral and selected sites behaved equally in terms of IBD, but then you say that removing the selected locus would improve inference of population structure and gene flow. Please clarify.

l. 423-425: This conclusion is hampered by the fact that even the "present/absent" regime of selection will cause a clinal genetic pattern at the selected site because of gene flow.

l. 429: "selection would be stronger" -> "selection would be more effective".

l. 431: "outlier loci detection methods" -> "methods for detecting outlier loci".

l. 433: "in fact" -> "indeed".

l. 440: See previous comments about N*s and the confusion about whether you used s = 0.1 or s = 0.01. This seems crucial.

l. 451: Please rethink the formulation "present versus absent selection".

l. 455: "with the exception of in populations..." -> "except for populations..."

l. 457: "was" -> "were".

l. 486: "and" -> "which".

l. 498: "choice of methods" -> "choosing methods".

l. 519-529: Relatively strong claims about the impact of this study are made here, which I find are currently not justified given the lack of clarity. Also, to justify the claims, much more specific recommendations for future empirical studies should be stated.

l. 533: Delete the hyphen in "locally-adapted".

l. 747-748: Without specification of the dispersal kernel, it is not clear how the "rate of dispersal among populations" and the "dispersal distance parameter" are related. Related to this, I suggest replacing "low N_m" and "high N_m" in the header by "low dispersal" and "high dispersal" (see other comments, too).

l. 753: The selection coefficient "s" should be italic.

Figure 1: Please correct the "c.)", "a.)", and "b.)" to be consistent in the caption; set genotypes italic; fix the last sentence of the caption.

Table 1: Selection coefficients "s" should be italic.

Table 3: Replace "a.)" by "a)" (similar for "b.)"). [This applies to other places as well, e.g. Table 4] In the header, please replace "low N_m" and "high N_m" by "low dispersal" and "high dispersal". It is not clear whether longer dispersal distances (which is what characterises "high dispersal") would necessarily result in hither N_m. In the caption, please specify whether you are considering all loci or only the neutral ones here. At some place (either in Table 2 or Table 3), please also give the actual values of N_m, not only the "maximum percentage dispersal rate" (Table 2).

Table 5: In the first line of the caption, what is meant by?

With repsect to multiple figures: Do the curves show averages across the 10 simulation runs? If so, it would be nice to have an idea of the variation around these means, as 10 seems to be a low number (but understandable given the computational costs). In several figures, it would help to have additional labels on top of panel columns and to the left of panel rows that give details that are currently only in the caption (e.g. "low dispersal" or "high drift"). Please increase the contrast between line types of "Neutral" and "Selection-driven" lines. Sometimes it is hard to see if the line is dashed or dot-dashed (e.g. Figure 3 a.iii).

Figure 2: Please increase the font size in the legends. Again, I suggest using "low dispersal" and "high dispersal" instead of "low N_m" and "high N_m". Please correct the references to what I think should be "Table 1" and "Table 2". This occurs at other places, too, but I am not going to repeat myself. I found panels b.iii and b.iv surprising, as I would have expected the inverse pattern, i.e. stronger differentiation between the selected and neutral loci in the case of low dispersal (iii) than in the case of high dispersal (iv). Could you please provide an explanation? I might be missing a point.
For the supporting figures and tables, please check the specifications of the journal with respect to how individual items should be labeled. Please adjust in-text references accordingly. In the caption, replace "with selection strong (a) and weak (b)" -> "with strong (a) and weak (b) selection".

Figure 3: In the caption, replace "with selection strong [weak]" by "with strong [weak] selection".

Appendix S2: The contrast between this figure and Figure 2 is striking. I wonder if this is a biologically relevant difference, or perhaps due to the way you measured D_est in the "presence/absence" vs. "gradient" regime (see comments above about the demographic/spatial unit with respect you defined gene flow and measured Fst and D_est). As this is a point that is not yet clear from the current text, I suggest you update the interpretation of this contrast later on accordingly. At present, it is very difficult to make sense of Appendix S2.

Appendix S3: What causes the difference between neutral and seleceted sites in the panels where the solid and dashed lines are so different? Since there is no selection, I find it very difficult, for instance, to interpret panel b.i. In the caption, it should say "drift" after "low" on the last line.

With respect to both Figures 2 and Appendix S2, I wonder if it would be better to show the D_est axis on a log-scale, so that differences between curves become better visible when absolute values are small on the natural scale. 