From: Karen Chambers <onbehalfof@manuscriptcentral.com>
Subject: Decision for MEC-19-0061, Molecular Ecology
Date: 4 March 2019 at 15:34:49 CET
To: molecol@wiley.com
Reply-To: Manager.MolEcol@wiley.com

04-Mar-2019

Dear Reviewer,

A decision of 'Reconsider after revision' has been rendered for 'Background selection and F<sub>ST</sub>: consequences for detecting local adaptation', which you recently reviewed for Molecular Ecology. The comments of all reviewers and the decision letter are included at the bottom of this email.

Your participation in the peer-review process is critical to the journal's success and directly impacts the quality of the research we publish. We appreciate your assistance with the evaluation of the manuscript and hope that we may contact you for assistance with future submissions falling within your areas of interest and expertise.

All the best,

Dr Karen Chambers
Managing Editor, Molecular Ecology
Manager.MolEcol@wiley.com


Decision letter in full:
04-Mar-2019

Dear Mr. Matthey-Doret:

Your manuscript entitled 'Background selection and F<sub>ST</sub>: consequences for detecting local adaptation' has now been reviewed and assessed by an Editor. Their comments are included below. While the manuscript cannot be accepted in its present form, the Editor has indicated that if you can complete the required revisions satisfactorily, it may then be cleared for acceptance.  The manuscript may or may not undergo further review at the Editor’s discretion.   Please realize that this is not a guarantee that a revised manuscript will be accepted. If the Editor does not regard the revised manuscript as satisfactory, the automatic decision will be to reject the manuscript, with or without encouragement for a further resubmission at a later stage.

To submit your revised manuscript:

1. Log in to your Scholar One account and click on the 'manuscripts with decisions' link

2. Click 'create a revision' and follow the on-screen instructions. (Do not upload your revised manuscripts as a new submission.)

3. Please include a point-by-point response to the reviewer comments, including a detailed list of changes made and a rebuttal to any comments with which you disagree, being as specific as possible in your responses.

4. Please provide a version of your manuscript with the changes tracked or highlighted.

5. Your original files will be available to you when you upload your revised manuscript. Please delete any outdated files before completing the submission.

The title and abstract of your article are very important to increasing its visibility. We encourage you to make your article more discoverable online with the following tips:

https://authorservices.wiley.com/author-resources/Journal-Authors/Prepare/writing-for-seo.html

Should your manuscript be accepted, data archiving must be completed and data must be publicly available prior to publication of your manuscript. Exemptions to this policy may be granted for cases involving sensitive information such as human subject data or the location of endangered species.

In order to schedule publication efficiently, we impose a deadline of 30 days for the return of revised manuscripts. Manuscripts returned after the deadline may be regarded as new submissions, with a new receipt date, and may be subject to the full peer review process.

If you feel that your paper could benefit from English language polishing, you may wish to consider having your paper professionally edited for English language by a service such as Wiley’s at http://wileyeditingservices.com. Please note that while this service will greatly improve the readability of your paper, it does not guarantee acceptance of your paper by the journal.

I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.

Best Wishes,

Karen Chambers, Ph.D.
Managing Editor
Molecular Ecology
E-mail: manager.molecol@wiley.com



Editor Comments to Author:


While the reviewers appreciate the improvements that have been made, both still have substantial concerns.  Please revise your MS accordingly; I expect that if this second round of revisions is satisfactory, it should not be necessary to send it out for review.

Prof. Nick Barton
Subject Editor, Molecular Ecology


Reviewer Comments to Author:

Reviewer: 1

Comments to the Author
Uploaded as a PDF file.

Reviewer: 2

Comments to the Author
See separate file.
