Summary
=======

Here, Kim and co-authors use population genetic simulations to study the impact of admixture and dominance on deleterious variation under alternative demographic scenarios and as a function of the recombination rate. They show that in a model with two demes of equal size and a single pulse of unidirectional gene flow, admixture has essentially no impact with what they call 'additive' deleterious mutations only (h = 0.5). However, with recessive deleterious mutations (h = 0), admixture causes an immediate reduction in load in the recipient population relative to the source population. This reduction in relative load is due to heterosis resulting from a protective effect that wild type alleles have in hybrid offspring, which is in line with both classical theory (Crow 1948), as well as more recent empirical work on Neanderthal introgression in humans (Harris & Nielsen 2016). The protective effect diffuses over time as recombination breaks up the association between introgressing and local alleles, though. A short bottleneck in the recipient population causes no qualitative and little quantitative difference from these dynamics. With recessive mutations, in both scenarios, the proportion of introgression-derived ancestry in the source population is highest if recombination rate is lowest.

In contrast to a short bottleneck, long-term differences in population size cause a strong difference in the relative load accumulated before admixture. The smaller population (either the source or recipient) accumulates more deleterious mutations, both with 'additive' and recessive mutations. With 'additive' mutations, admixture has essentially no impact on the purging of relative load in the recipient population if the source population is smaller than the recipient. However, the proportion of introgression-derived ancestry now decreases with recombination rate. This is in line recent work on selection against putatively deleterious variants introgressed from Neanderthals into humans (Harris & Nielsen 2016; Juric et al. 2016). With recessive mutations, much less relative load accumulates in the recipient population if recombination is low, but admixture has little impact on the on-going decrease of load. The proportion of introgression-derived  If, in contrast, TODO: Go on here.

The effect of recombination is always such that lower recombination decreases the efficacy of purifying selection, but enhances the effect of heterosis.

The authors show that the correlation between the proportion of ingrogression-derived ancestry and recombination rate can be positive or negative, . 


Major comments
==============

1) The admixture proportion has been fixed, although it is not clear if the effect of this parameter on the observed quantities (population mean fitness, proxies of mutational burden) is monotonic. A detailed exploration of the effect of the admixture proportion might be beyond the scope of this paper, but it should be mentioned as a direction for future work. Similarly, only recessivity and additivity, but no intermediate dominance, have been studied. In Model 2, the opposite effects of admixture on the frequency of introgression-derived ancestry (p_I) under recessivity vs. additivity suggests that there is an intermediate degree of dominance at which selection should have no effect on p_I. This particular degree of dominance should depend on the recombination rate. The fact that this study is entirely based on simulations under a restricted range of biological scenarios therefore limits the insight about the role of important parameters. There is no immediate problem with that, but the limitations should be more clearly addressed in the Discussion.

2) In light of the on-going debate about the usefulness of proxies measuring the burden of deleterious mutations, it is noteworthy that the number of deleterious variants per individual seems to be much less sensitive to changes in mean fitness than the number of homozygous derived genotypes. This applies in particular to the case of recessive deleterious mutations. Conversely, the number of derived variants does seem to track -- at least qualitatively -- the reduction in fitness relatively well in the case of additive deleterious mutations. It might strengthen the Discussion if the observed patterns were related more extensively to the ones found in previous recent literature that ignored admixture (e.g. Lohmueller et al. 2008; Lohmueller 2014; Do et al. 2015, Simons et al. 2014; Simons and Sella 2016).

3) Introgression-derived ancestry was tracked here based on neutral marker mutations introduced at the very beginning into the source population only. There were no mutations at these marker sites, and these were used to track the dynamics of the proportion of introgression-derived ancestry (p_I). Besides these marker mutations, other neutral mutations were apparently also simulated (e.g. l.139), but it is unclear whether these were used, and if so for what. The dynamics of the frequency of introgression-derived ancestry (p_I) was related to the findings of studies that modelled the effect of selection at linked sites on diversity at neutral sites without restrictions on neutral mutation rate (e.g. l.375-376; but see Juric et al. 2016). So, to me, it is not clear how the authors draw the connection between non-mutating ancestry markers in their simulations, and predictions/results from other studies about the diversity at neutral sites linked to sites under selection. Specifically, the authors caution that purifying selection could mimic patterns expected under divergent selection against gene flow (e.g. a negative correlation between diversity and recombination). It would be great if the authors could address the distinction between the frequency of foreign ancestry vs. linked neutral diversity.

4) The distribution of fitness effects (DFE) used here was inferred by Kim et al. (2016) under the assumption of additivity. Yet, the same DFE is used in this study here for both additive and recessive deleterious mutations. Since theory and empirical studies suggest that more deleterious mutations tend to be more recessive, I am concerned that the combinations of selection coefficients and dominance coefficients simulated here may not be representative of real populations. It is therefore difficult to assess the relevance of the results. If the authors could convincingly show/argue how a negative correlation between dominance and selection coefficients would affect p_I, fitness, and proxies of mutation load, this would strengthen the manuscript a lot. The problem is touched on l.514-523 and l.562-656 in the Discussion, but the main issue remains not fully addressed. I have reservations about the usefulness (biological relevance) of considering dominance and the DFE separately.

5) What Fig. 5 and the related analyses seem to ignore is that recombination rate and gene density *jointly* determine the impact of selection on the proportion of introgression-derived ancestry, p_I. The results shown only reflect the specific recombination map and gene locations and, in particular, the correlation between recombination and gene density, typical of the chosen subset of chromosome 1. It is not clear whether one can draw general conclusions. And it is therefore hard to judge how generic the predictions in Table 2 are, as long as qualitatively different correlations between gene density and recombination are not explicitly investigated. I actually do believe that Table 2 holds, but I do not think that simulating just one randomly chosen segment of a human chromosome provides sufficient evidence. If I am not mistaken, gene density and recombination rate are slightly positively correlated along the human genome. Hence, in scenarios where increasing recombination is predicted to decrease p_I under uniform gene density (e.g. in Model 4), an (strong) underlying positive correlation between recombination and gene density could reverse -- or at least attenuate -- the expected pattern of a negative correlation between p_I and recombination in reality. My suspicion is that the correlation between recombination and gene density is not strong enough in humans to lead to such an inversion. But this potential issue seems worth being discussed. See also Slotte (2014, Brief Funct Genomics) or Aeschbacher et al. (2017). 

6) I wonder if in the title 'genomic incompatibilities' should be replaced by 'divergent selection in the face of gene flow' or similar. Genomic incompatibilities (in the classical sense of DMIs) per se are not a very effective barrier to gene flow unless the underlying alleles are also locally adapted (see e.g. Bank et al. 2012, Genetics).

7) The way fitness is computed in the 'additive' model (l.629) is inconsistent with the use of h as 'dominance coefficient' and with the use of 'additive mutations' for mutations with h = 0.5 (see e.g. l.144). With the definition on l.629, h = 0.5 does not result in additivity. In a similar way, the justification given on l.625-628 for the definition of w_j on l.629 is in itself inconsistent: "Because our intent with an additive fitness model was to make the fitness effect of each variant independent of its genotype, we computed additive fitness as purely multiplicative across all deleterious variants,...". Additivity and multiplicativity exclude each other; dominance is a property of the genotypic state (i.e. of the alleles involved), and trying to make dominance independent of genotypic state therefore sounds strange. In fact, what the currently used fitness regime implies is that what the authors call the 'additivie' case actually involves slight underdominance. The extent of underdominance depends on the magnitude of s. To see this, compare (1 - s)(1 - s) = 1 - 2s + s^2 to 1 - 2s. The former homozygote fitness is larger than the latter by s^2. The fitness of the heterozygote is 1 - s, which is smaller than the average between 1 and 1 - 2s + s^2.



Minor issues
============

l.132-135: It was not fully clear to me how you estimated the proportion of introgression-derived ancestry (p_I). Is it a multi-locus average over all maker sites of the frequency of the allele indicating introgressed ancestry? In the simulations with a realistic map of recombination and gene density (a subset of the human chromosome 1), is p_I computed as the average over marker sites within each window?

l.200: Please check if the references to Fig. 2 and S1 are needed.

l.339: "has increases to" -> "increases to"

l.355: I think it should say "are analogous to Models 0, 1, and 4" instead of "are analogous to Models 0 and 4". However, reading the paragraph starting on l.358, it was not clear to me why Model 1 was invoked here at all.

l.359: "for these three models" -> "for Models 0 and 4". Or if indeed three models were simulated, then l.355 must be adusted, as only two models are listed there.

l.372-377: I suggest to separately list the literature concerned with either genomic incompatibility or maladaptive alleles. For instance, neither Brandvain et al. (2014) nor Aeschbacher et al. (2017) were concerned with classical genetic incompatibilities (i.e. epistasis at the level of genotypes), but with maladaptive alleles.

l.377-378: Aeschbacher et al. (2017) explicitly accounted for the confounding effect of selection on deleterious variation (i.e. background selection in their case). This comment also applies to l.476-481.

l.505-513: I was confused by this paragraph. Isn't a positive correlation between recombination and the frequency of introgressed ancestry predicted by Model 2 under additivity? Model 2 therefore would not only seem to explain the situation in swordtail fish, but also observed patterns of Neanderthal introgression into modern humans.

l.532-547: For Model 3 (introgression from a large source into a small recipient population), the statement that the fitness in the admixed population increases the most for the lowest recombination rate (l.537-538) seems to be appropriate only immediately after the admixture (Fig. 2) if deleterious mutations are recessive. Interestingly, on l.540 this scenario is used to explain why recombination is apparently found to be more effective in removing deleterious mutations in regions of low recombination (as opposed to the prediction under Hill-Robertson interference). From Fig. 2, Model 3, left-hand panel, it seems as if fairly soon after admixture, the prediction of the Hill-Roberstson interference does apply. Please clarify.

l.562: Aeschbacher et al. (2017) include background selection in their null model.

Fig. 2: The caption mentions both mean and median fitness without clarifying why different terms are used.

Fig. 5: It would be great to see the recombination rate along the genome, superimposing the existing plot on an appropriate scale, or in a separate panel on top.

Fig. 5: I was a bit puzzled by an apparent lack of parallelism in the loess curves for the recessive mutations under Models 0, 2, and 4. Specifically, I would have expected to see the red curves peak more consistently across all Models in regions of high exonic density. Instead, local peaks are not shared very consistently among Models. Is this just a consequence of a moderate number of replications, insufficient to smooth out variation induced by the sampling of selection coefficients from the DFE? If so, this might be worth a comment.

Fig. S1: The y-axis label says "median fitness" is shown; the caption mentions both "mean fitness" and "median fitness". Please clarify.

Figs. S1, S2, S3, and Fig. 3: Please consider providing additional versions of these figures in which the range of the y axis is identical between different rows within the same figure. Currently, the scales are different, which emphasises the qualitative patterns, but distracts from the quantitative differences among Models.
